The Code of Federal Regulations is a codification of the general and permanent
rules published in the Federal Register by the Executive departments and agencies of the Federal Government. The Code is divided into 50 titles which represent
broad areas subject to Federal regulation. Each title is divided into chapters
which usually bear the name of the issuing agency. Each chapter is further subdivided into parts covering specific regulatory areas.
Each volume of the Code is revised at least once each calendar year and issued
on a quarterly basis approximately as follows:
Title 1 through Title 16..............................................................as of January 1
Title 17 through Title 27 .................................................................as of April 1
Title 28 through Title 41 ..................................................................as of July 1
Title 42 through Title 50.............................................................as of October 1
The appropriate revision date is printed on the cover of each volume.
LEGAL STATUS federal
The contents of the Federal Register are required to be judicially noticed (44
U.S.C. 1507). The Code of Federal Regulations is prima facie evidence of the text
of the original documents (44 U.S.C. 1510).
HOW TO USE THE CODE OF FEDERAL REGULATIONS
The Code of Federal Regulations is kept up to date by the individual issues
of the Federal Register. These two publications must be used together to determine the latest version of any given rule.
To determine whether a Code volume has been amended since its revision date
(in this case, January 1, 2024), consult the ‘‘List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA),’’
which is issued monthly, and the ‘‘Cumulative List of Parts Affected,’’ which
appears in the Reader Aids section of the daily Federal Register. These two lists
will identify the Federal Register page number of the latest amendment of any
given rule.
EFFECTIVE AND EXPIRATION DATES
Each volume of the Code contains amendments published in the Federal Register since the last revision of that volume of the Code. Source citations for
the regulations are referred to by volume number and page number of the Federal
Register and date of publication. Publication dates and effective dates are usually not the same and care must be exercised by the user in determining the
actual effective date. In instances where the effective date is beyond the cutoff date for the Code a note has been inserted to reflect the future effective
date. In those instances where a regulation published in the Federal Register
states a date certain for expiration, an appropriate note will be inserted following
the text.
OMB CONTROL NUMBERS
The Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (Pub. L. 96–511) requires Federal agencies
to display an OMB control number with their information collection request.
Many agencies have begun publishing numerous OMB control numbers as amendments to existing regulations in the CFR. These OMB numbers are placed as
close as possible to the applicable recordkeeping or reporting requirements.
PAST PROVISIONS OF THE CODE
Provisions of the Code that are no longer in force and effect as of the revision
date stated on the cover of each volume are not carried. Code users may find
the text of provisions in effect on any given date in the past by using the appropriate List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA). For the convenience of the reader,
a ‘‘List of CFR Sections Affected’’ is published at the end of each CFR volume.
For changes to the Code prior to the LSA listings at the end of the volume,
consult previous annual editions of the LSA. For changes to the Code prior to
2001, consult the List of CFR Sections Affected compilations, published for 1949-
1963, 1964-1972, 1973-1985, and 1986-2000.
‘‘[RESERVED]’’ TERMINOLOGY
The term ‘‘[Reserved]’’ is used as a place holder within the Code of Federal
Regulations. An agency may add regulatory information at a ‘‘[Reserved]’’ location at any time. Occasionally ‘‘[Reserved]’’ is used editorially to indicate that
a portion of the CFR was left vacant and not dropped in error.
INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE
What is incorporation by reference? Incorporation by reference was established
by statute and allows Federal agencies to meet the requirement to publish regulations in the Federal Register by referring to materials already published elsewhere. For an incorporation to be valid, the Director of the Federal Register
must approve it. The legal effect of incorporation by reference is that the material is treated as if it were published in full in the Federal Register (5 U.S.C.
552(a)). This material, like any other properly issued regulation, has the force
of law.
What is a proper incorporation by reference? The Director of the Federal Register
will approve an incorporation by reference only when the requirements of 1 CFR
part 51 are met. Some of the elements on which approval is based are:
(a) The incorporation will substantially reduce the volume of material published in the Federal Register.
(b) The matter incorporated is in fact available to the extent necessary to
afford fairness and uniformity in the administrative process.
(c) The incorporating document is drafted and submitted for publication in
accordance with 1 CFR part 51.
